So I've got this god hot on my tail and I'm just gonna go and lose him.
And what you're going to see here is that he's now being suspicious.
He's not instantly going back to guard the location he's meant to guard but he's hanging around a bit
and wonder scratching his chin like the dumb girl that is going who.
Where did the player go.
And then he goes back to God because he wasn't paid enough to worry about this sort of problem.
So let's dive in and see how we can make our God suspicious what we want to happen is that we would
enter a state of suspicion after we have seen a player.
And how would we do that.
How would we then forget about the player.
How would we know.
Well we need to adjust our guard's memory.
The guard needs to now remember when he last or how long ago he last saw the enemy.
So I'm gonna create a float for that time and it's going to be time since last saw player.
Now we've used these kinds of variables before and we can assume that the time since he last saw the
player initially should be very very high.
So we can again use our math f dot infinity as the starting value for the time since we last saw the
player.
Then what are we going to do.
Well we're going to have to think about how we can enter a state of suspicion now at this stage we might
be tempted to say we've got quite a few states going on here we've got an attacking state a returning
to God or guarding state and now we're gonna have a suspicion state as well.
Often in a lie people use something called a finite state machine and we're not going to be using a
finite state machine a typical finite state machine looks a little bit like this representing the brain
of an enemy.
And you can see there's quite a lot of complexity going on here we can wonder we can attack.
We can evade we can find eight.
Now we aren't at this level of complexity.
We can see here that there are transitions between these states and they are restricted.
You cannot go from attack to find aid state for example in our case.
You can go from any states to any other state.
We don't need to at this stage restrict things so we're going to put an if else in here and just do
it as an if statement within the update.
I think this is the simplest tool to represent the states because we need to do these boolean expressions
to figure out from the State of the world what we should be doing and to introduce any kind of e enum
or switch statement would introduce more complexity because we would have to set another variable that
derived variable from this state whereas in the if statement we can query the state of the world directly
and decide what our action should be and what state we should be in.
So sorry it's not else if else is else if we're going to have an.
Else if condition and we're going to do something on health if in here.
This is going to be our suspicion state and I'm going to leave out to you what the condition should
be and what suspicion state should be.
But before I give that to you as a challenge we need to make sure that the time since we last saw the
play is actually getting updated.
So at the end of updates I'm going to do a as we've done before with these kinds of time is I going
to do a plus equal time dot delta time which will increment this by the amount that the frame took on
every frame.
So we're going to be times the class delta time is going to be increasing if we don't reset it.
When do we reset it.
Well we when we see the player is when we're doing our attack.
So we are going to set it to zero when we're doing the attack in here.
OK.
So that just leaves this suspicion state.
Now I've noticed I put it here in the cascade of if statements.
The reason for this is our first priority is to attack.
If we cannot attack we are going to be suspicious.
And if it is no longer time to be suspicious because the enemy had went away a certain amount of time
ago then we are going to move back to our guard position.
That's the kind of attack reads that's the cascade.
Kind of makes sense.
So you're gonna implement suspicion you're going to create a suspicion condition.
Now think about this because you might have to introduce some configuration parameters and how can we
cancel any other action because bear in mind you might not have just been fighting.
You might have done something else we want to make it as generic as possible hacking cancel any action
that might have been going on for the plan and just wait there suspiciously in idle so put a video and
have a go at this challenge KAYE Welcome back.
So I did allude to the fact we would need a new configuration parameter.
We're going to need a serialize field and it's going to be a float called the suspicion time.
And I'm going to default that to be about three seconds something that sounds reasonable and you can
always change that design can always tweak.
And so what we're gonna do is if the Times since we last saw the player is less than the suspicion time
then we are going to be suspicious.
And what we're going to do when we are suspicious I'm going to actually put that comment in there to
say that that's a suspicion state.
In fact the fact I'm leaving a comment in there kind of makes me think we need to be more explicit with
this comments generally lead to code smell.
We're not making the code itself documents itself.
So for now I'm just going to type in here what I think this should do.
I think they should get hold of the action scheduler and it should cancel the current action like so
nice and simple.
OK.
So now what we want to do is just move these states into separate functions.
So I'm going to take this attack and I'm not going to include the timer because I think it makes sense
for the timer to be visible all at this level in the update to see what's going on we'll know this way.
All an update when it gets reset when we use it at hand when it gets updated.
So the attack I am going to extract into a and attack behavior.
The action scheduler cancel is going to be suspicious behavior.
And this guard is going to be guard behavior.
So now at the top level and update it makes sense if we're dead we don't do anything.
If these conditions are true then we launch the attack behavior.
If the time since we last saw the player is lessened suspicion time reduce suspicion behavior and otherwise
we are going to go back and guard that's our default behavior.
Default fallback.
And we've got the implementation details down here.
So let's try this out.
Let's go over to our guards and see if they're going to be suspicious so he's come towards me.
He loses sight of me.
He goes to his position and waits around and then goes back.
I think that was a very long time to wait so I'm going to tweak it in my enemy prefab that he should
be suspicious for a little bit longer.
So it's suspicion time let's make it five seconds or something.
So I go up to him.
He follows me follows me through the trees might not see me see where he is if he follows me through
the trees.
So I leave him behind.
They go.
He is being suspicious suspicious suspicious.
And then he goes back to guard his point again.
So this is a way that you could learn some guards away from their guard post for a short time but they
will eventually go back there which is the natural thing for them to do.
And I think that's quite cool.
So we've figured out how we can extend the mind of the A.I. so that it has this knowledge of both where
it's meant to be guarding but also the fact that it saw a plan and it saw it some time ago.
So that is cool.
In the next lecture we are going to be focusing instead on waypoints and patrol routes.
So more interesting than guarding behavior.
We're going to get our guard to wander around patrolling the area.
I'll see you there.